So, as we saw in the previous video,
we got our basic screen up and working
but we're missing scroll bars though.
Now, we could put scroll bars in their own columns
next to the list boxes,
and if you set them to be sticky to the left-hand side
of the column, so to the west, in other words,
they'd appear right up against the appropriate list box.
And that's a perfectly acceptable way to do it
but I don't actually want to do that here.
So, in case you haven't guessed,
we're gonna be creating our own classes,
we're gonna create our own classes
and they're gonna inherit from
the TK inter list box class.
So, our class is going to deal with loading data
from the database but while we're at it,
we may as well give them scroll bars as well.
So, when the new list box objects are created,
they won't know that there's a column to the right
that can host a scroll bar.
So, it's probably better to put the scroll bars
in the same column as the list boxes.
Now, it may not be obvious that you can do that
but as long as the scroll bars
are set to be sticky to the right,
the east, in other words,
then the list box will only fill the width
of a column up to the scroll bar.
So, let's close this down
and what I'm going to do is we're gonna add a scroll bar
to the artist's list first,
then we can copy and paste the code
for the other list boxes.
So, I'm gonna go back up to the artist's list code
below the definition, the config line on line 31.
Let's continue on with our scroll bar.
So, I'm gonna type artist, scroll
is equal to TK inter dot scroll bar,
with a capital S,
parentheses, main window,
comma, space,
then orient equals TK inter
dot VERTICAL, all in upper case,
comma, space,
command, equals,
that's gonna be artist list
dot Y view
and then on the next line we want artist scroll,
dot grid, row equals one,
comma, space, colon
equals zero, comma, space, sticky,
equals, single quotes, NSE,
comma, the row span is equal to two.
Then the last line,
artist list.
There you want left square brackets,
two single quotes,
then we want within those two single quotes,
wide scroll command
equals, then it's artist scroll
dot set
and that should be it.
So, let's just run this code.
Then check out the code
and we can see now very faintly,
but it's actually there,
a scroll bar neatly tied now
to the list box, as you can see,
and obviously, once we start populating that with some data,
we'll be able to see that a little bit easier.
So, at the moment, obviously because of that,
the fact that there's no data, it doesn't scroll
but you probably less concerned about that
than about the fact that I've just suggested
copying and pasting code.
So, when you're performing basic initialization,
then you really just can't get away
from copying and pasting,
but when you're adding functionality,
as we are here, there's always a better way.
And here it turns out that there is.
But before we look at that,
let's review the code that we've got so far.
So, I'm just gonna close this down.
Most of it is pretty straightforward
but there are a couple of things
that I haven't discussed before.
So, I'm gonna start with the album list box
here on line 38
and specifically, this TK inter dot variable line.
You know, TK inter variables attract variables.
What that means is that when they change
anything using them is notified of the change.
So, what we've done here is create a TK inter variable
and again, I'm talking about the code on line 38,
called album LV, then we've used the list variable property,
this is the code on line 40 now,
and that's from the album's list box
and that connects the variable to the list box.
Now, if the variable changes, the list box is informed
and you can display the new contents of the variable.
So, to demonstrate that,
we're gonna assign a new value to album LV
before calling the main loop,
so the code down here, in other words.
So, let's go ahead and do that.
So, we're gonna type album LV
dot set and two parentheses,
two left parentheses that was,
and one, comma, space, two, comma, space,
three, comma, space, four, comma, space
then five and then two right parentheses.
Now, the thing to remember with TK inter variables
is that you just can't assign a new value to them,
you actually have to use the set method,
as I've done here on line 52,
so here what I'm dong is assigning a new tuple
and because we're passing a tuple to a function
we have to enclose the tuple
in another set of parentheses.
So, that's why there's two parentheses there.
So, if you run this code now,
you can see that the album's list box
is displaying the items from the tuple.
So, our album LV variable's bound
to the album's list box
and if its contents change, then the list box
will display those new values automatically,
as you can see that it's done here.
Now, I know this is a bit artificial
and we change the album LV,
let's just close this down,
we changed the album LV variable
before starting the main loop,
so in other words, we changed it on line 52
and the main loop starts on line 53,
but it works the same way when our gooey is running.
Now, that's actually gonna be very useful.
When we read the albums for a new artist,
we just have to store the values in a tuple
and assign it to the album's LV.
Then the list box will be updated automatically.
Now, the second thing is how we connect the scroll bars
to the list boxes.
When the scroll bar scrolls,
it has to notify the list box that it's done so.
Now, the list box also has to tell the scroll bar
how far it can scroll,
remembering that we've just seen a way
to update the list box contents dynamically.
So the communication, in fact, is two way.
Now, the list box has actually got a Y view method
that's used to change the vertical position of the list box.
So, if you wanted to scroll horizontally,
then you would use the X view method instead.
So basically, if this code on line 33,
we're telling the scroll bar
that it should call the artist list's Y view method
when it scrolls, which is exactly what we want here.
Now, any method that has a Y view property
can be scrolled vertically
and the same for X view
but of course, only horizontally in that case, of course.
Now, to communicate the other way,
we're using the scroll bar's set method.
This is the code here on line 35.
So, we're telling the list box
to call the scroll bar's set method
whenever anything happens
that it should tell the scroll view about.
So, if we use the arrow keys
to move through the list, for example,
the list box will set the scroll bar
according to how far through the list we are.
So, that's all we have to do to implement scrolling
on any widget that supports it.
We set the scroll bar's command property,
line 33 again, set that to the Y view method of the widget,
we wanna scroll and then we use
the widget's Y scroll command
here on line 35, use that property
to the set method of the scroll bar.
Okay, so despite what I said,
I'm actually going to copy and paste the code.
And I'm gonna do that just so we can see the common elements
and then in the next video,
what we're gonna do is subclass the list class box
to produce our own scrollable list box.
So, what we want to do for now
is copy these three lines,
this artist scroll definition
and then the dot grid
and then the setting up of the Y scroll command.
So, we'll copy those three lines.
Now, we're gonna come down here
and do this for the albums.
Paste it down there like so.
Then, we obviously need to make a change there
to change the definitions from artist scroll to album,
so I'm gonna do that.
Album.
And the other thing I need to do is make sure
that I actually change the column to one there
because obviously album is in column one,
as opposed to the artist being in column zero.
And everything else should be good to go there.
Alright, so one final thing before I finish this video
is to test that the scrolling really works.
So, let's go ahead and add a load of items
to the album's list box.
I'm gonna go down here below
the main loop comment
and we're actually gonna start by typing test,
list is equal to range,
parentheses, zero, comma, space, 100, parentheses
or right parentheses.
And then we're gonna do album LV
dot, set, parentheses, tuple,
parentheses, test, list
and the two right ending parentheses.
So, what we're doing here is,
and actually I'll delete that next line
before I continue.
There we go.
So, what we're doing here is we're creating a list
and then converting it to a tuple
before assigning that to our album LV variable
using its set method,
and obviously can see that code on line 57.
Now I'm gonna stop the video here
and in the next one we're gonna see how to create
that scrollable list box class
that I mentioned, so that we don't have to keep
duplicating this code.
Before that though, we need to look at args and KW args.
So, we're gonna see what they're all about
in the next video.